---
layout: post
title: "Good Students Play Big Lottery Better"
date: 2021-06-27
---

#### Paper Summary
##### Written By: Ajay Jaiswal
------------------
[Paper URL](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2101.03255.pdf)

**Lottery Ticket Hypothesis (LTH)** points to a brand-new opportunity to identify an extremely sparse and self-trainable sub-network from a dense model. Such sub-network can be found via the following three steps: 

(1) training a dense network from scratch; 

(2) pruning unnecessary weights to form a sparse sub-network; and 

(3) re-training the sub-network from the same random initial weights used in the dense model (winning ticket). 

### Motivation

Such sparse sub-network that can match the test accuracy of the original dense networks when trained in isolation from (the same) random initialization. However, the hypothesis fails to immediately generalize to larger dense networks such as ResNet-50. Later research efforts found that, while it was generally hard to achieve a comparable performance of the sub-network from totally (even the same) random initialization, some “auxiliary information" could be obtained from the **early training phase** of the dense network (first step) to aid the re-training (third step).

**Weight rewinding** proposed (Frankle et. al. 2019) “roll back" the dense model weights to some early training iteration (but not the very beginning), and to use the rewound weight as the re-training initialization. That was found to help find lottery tickets in large networks and/or at extremely high pruning ratios. A simplified version which is called **learning rate rewinding**, i.e., rolling back the learning rate schedule rather than the weight status, for the retraining to start with. Those efforts suggest the promise of “recycling" useful knowledge from the original training for finding large-scale lottery tickets.

### Paper Contribution

The paper explores the question : *will the late training phase of the dense model provide helpful side information for large-scale ticket finding too?*

To accomplish the goal, we propose the **knowledge distillation ticket (KD ticket)**. By leveraging the classical knowledge distillation, our KD ticket re-trains the sub-network (third step) by employing the soft-labels generated by the trained dense model (first step), instead of using one-hot labels again. KD ticket is hassle-free to use, and avoids the ad-hoc selection of the rewinding epoch.

**Note** KD tickets alone lead to comparable or better performance than rewinding. When the two are coupled together, we witness a further performance boost, reaching new state-of-the-arts in lottery ticket findings in large networks.

